Hagos,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the simple if statement,
So the simple if statement is used in checking if a condition has been achieved or if a
condition is true and if that's the case,
then there is some code or some actions that you're gonna take based on the fact that this
condition is true.
And if the condition is fulls than the actions will not be executed or the code will not be
executed and its structure in its simplest form is basically if condition equals to true,
then there is some code to be executed here,
and then we've got the end.
If so,
you will basically have some code wrapped between the if and the end.
If and this code is executed,
if and only if condition is equal to true out.
Of course,
if the condition is equal to fulsome than the code is not going to be executed.
So basically the code execution will resume after the end.
If statement and the code part here will be bypassed,
they will not be executed.
Okay,
so let's have an example here.
So the example I've got here is basically to test that some sales persons are achieving the
target.
And if it's the case,
would have a message box popped.
The this sales person has achieved the target on If not,
we will not have the message box pop.
So basically off created here two variables.
The first variable is the sale stargate,
which is an integer which is gonna be basically our target,
which is 20,000.
And we've got the sales person which is gonna be actually taking the name of the sales
person as a strength from this cells containing the sales person.
And this macro needs to be executed while you're actually having the sales amount selected
.
And if you check the variable sales person where it gets its value from its basically the
value of the active celled offset.
So that means we're going to move from the active cell zero a negative one zeros negative
one.
That means one column to the left dot value.
So while you're standing on the sales amount,
the sales person variable gets its value from the cell that is zeros and negative one
columns.
That means one calm to the left.
And that means the column containing this sales person.
And then this is our if statement here,
if the value of the active seldom value,
which were standing on which contains the sales amount,
is greater than or equal to the sale Stargate,
then this message box is gonna be pumped,
which is the sales person.
Whoever his name is achieved,
the target and notice year that we've got a space before the word achieve yer so as to have
a space between the name of the sales person and the word achieved.
Okay,
so let's start going through this code here.
You need to make sure that the value for the sales amount is selected at the beginning,
and then we're gonna go through the coat step by step.
So you're the variable called sales target is given the value of 20,000.
She's our target,
and then here will get the value.
The sales person in this case is Jennifer because we selected the sales amount for Jennifer
and then if the value of the active cells greater than or equal to the sale started,
is it?
Yes,
it is.
This message box is gonna be popped.
So we're gonna go to execute the message box is going to say Jennifer achieved the target
and if and and sub and you need to highlight the value for the sales a month for each sales
person to be able to execute the macro.
And this one as well has achieved because he's 21,000.
And then if we go to Jack,
he's 15,000.
He's less than two target,
so he's not gonna have the message box,
and that's it.
And you can do it for each sales person.
But you need to make sure that you selected the sales amount in the future when we learned
about loops,
you're gonna learn,
actually,
how to do this without needing to have the cell for the sales amount selected.
And you can just look through the cells and get that done without even needing to select
the cell for the sales amount.
Okay,
so this is not actually the best way to do it.
But it's just an example to demonstrate the if statement,
I want to note something else here,
which is that you're actually able to write the if statement and the line of code that you
need to execute on one line and remove the end.
If they're able to actually do that,
I'm gonna cut the message box here,
Put it on the same line.
So if and then the condition is tested,
then do this and remove the end.
If your code will work this way,
however,
this actually has to down sites.
The 1st 1 is that you can only execute one line of code this way as a result of the
condition that you're testing being true.
So you cannot put multiple lines of code to be executed.
That's the first disadvantage.
The 2nd 1 is that the code does not look very neat.
It is actually better to have the if condition put on one line and then put it then and
then put the lines of code that you need to execute and put an end.
If this marks a beginning and an end for your if statement makes it more readable.
So actually,
if we test this code this way,
if we stepped through it step by step by using F eight on a keyboard,
sincere that the code executes fine and with no problems.
However,
this is not the recommended way to write an if statement,
you'll find more than 90% of the people writes the if on one line and then the resulting
lines of code that need to execute and put an end if this marks a beginning and an end for
the if statement makes your code a lot more readable.
So I hope this lecture was informative for you guys.
We will learn more about the if statement in the upcoming videos.
Thank you very much watching this video I don't see on the next one.